= Links - Soon
Julien Kirch
v1.0, 2024-01-01
:article_lang: en
:figure-caption!:
:article_description: 

== link:https://lwn.net/ml/all/87sex4s7g8.fsf@hope.eyrie.org/[Re: Summary of the current state of the tag2upload discussion]

[quote]
____
The reason why I didn't participate in that discussion, and the reason why
I didn't try to summarize it, is that I don't believe anything will ever
come of it.  I don't think these more radical approaches will ever be
implemented, and if implemented, I don't think Debian will ever deploy
them.  Or, at least, that none of this will happen in any reasonable time
frame.

I know this sounds very negative, and I don't mean this to be stop energy
for people who want to work on this.  I would be absolutely thrilled to be
proven wrong.  That would make me very happy.  And therefore I stay out of
the discussion so that I don't just inject negativity.

But I've seen this pattern before.  I remember 3.0 (git).  And I remember
a lot of other discussions over the years that didn't get as far as 3.0
(git) got, discussions full of grand ideas and not much implementation
follow-through.

Debian is full of people who love to design things and love to talk about
other people's designs and love to look at the big picture.  But it's one
thing to design something, it's another thing to implement it, and it's
yet another thing to deploy it, and Debian is passively hostile to change
of this type to a degree that I don't think people realize until they've
tried to do it.

Worse, this is frequently used, as I feel is happening to some degree
here, as a justification for blocking work that has already been done.
____

[quote]
____
Blocking people's work because it's actively dangerous, sure, sometimes we
have to do that and it sucks but it may make sense.  But blocking people's
work because it didn't solve a larger problem than they wanted to solve,
or cared more about backward compatibility than one might wish, or changed
a security model in a way that's a little better in places and a little
worse than othersâ€¦ that just feels wrong to me.  Rude.  Dismissive.  And
self-defeating for Debian as a whole.
____
